# Core Data

- Core Data using SQLite Database behind the scene
- We have work with only objects (CRUD) and the core data works for us for CRUD operations in the form of Data Persistence
- Core Data Persistent Container (SQLite) is similar as storage or database
- Our Object don't contact the persistent container directly
- A layer is present on above of data persistent container called Managed Object Context (data manager layer)
- Our objects intract with Managed Object Context and then MOC contact persistent container (our object passes through MOC)
- All our objects present in the memory called Object Graph (How objects relate to each other)
- When you store data to the container in form of Object Graph all the properties along with relationships are preserved.
- When you retrieve from the database ther are in the same form.
- Data stored and then retrieve is in the process of serialize and deserialize (similar to json) and it is handle by NSManagedObject.
- All classes are inherits to NSManagedObject subclass
- Serialize and Deserialize is handled by Class and property files which is generated by core data framework that NSManagedObjectModel
- Managed Object Model – It describes the schema that you use in the app. If you have a database background, think of this as the database schema. However, the schema is represented by a collection of objects (also known as entities).
- In Xcode, the Managed Object Model is defined in a file with the extension .xcdatamodeld. You can use the visual editor to define the entities and their attributes, as well as, relationships.

### Architecture

Your App <-> Managed Object Context -> Persistent Store Container (it has store coordinator and object store) ->Database

### Queries in CoreData

NSPredicate: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/foundation/nspredicate

NSFetchRequest: https://developer.apple.com/documentation/coredata/nsfetchrequest

### Others

iOS Device Architectures: https://blakespot.com/ios_device_specifications_grid.html

Swift in Sizes: https://www.tutlane.com/tutorial/swift/swift-data-types

